# palexandrov11.github.io

Click register to create an account.
If username is not available refresh and enter a different username.
Once the browser says it is listening, enter password (maximum 5 seconds) and press enter to submit

To log in click log in, enter username, enter password, and press enter to submit

About "Rhythmic Authentication System":

	The purpose of this project was to develop a more demanding password system than the universal standard (key/symbol) while attempting to maintain a similar level of usability. In order to expand the complexity of the authentication system, I added two core functionalities which drastically increase the number of unique passwords. Instead of restricting each key stroke to one key, if the user presses multiple keys at once, the program can treat all the keys pressed as one singular input. This is realized by using javascript’s event listener and numerical key codes which the program always stores in an ordered concatenation; regardless of the order in which the user presses the keys, as long as they are the same keys, their combined key value will always be the same. The second new variable is time. By using javascript’s time functionality which returns millisecond values, precise measurements can be recorded for key stroke durations and the pauses between. Essentially the password is a melody; it has a rhythm (durations of key strokes and pauses) and a melody (key values associated with each stroke). 
	To better understand the complexity of this proposed system let us take a standard password of length six. A normal qwerty keyboard has 96 keys, so the total number of possible unique passwords is 96^6 ~ 800 billion. Now let us assume a user of the new system has three key values for each input: (96 * 95 * 94)^6 ~ 4*10^35 unique passwords (not even accounting for possible rhythm variations). Moreover, the rhythmic aspect of the password is harder to convey to another person and consequently more difficult for them to physically reproduce. This notion is supported by the user study that was conducted. 
	The password system was implemented into a webpage that interacts with a server connected to a database, which verifies user input in real-time, accounting for delays in packets between client and server (250 milliseconds on average with decent internet connection), and also allowing for a +/- 250 millisecond margin for error. The website was distributed to 15 people who created a password and signed in every few days for two weeks. The results show that users generally struggled to reproduce the password on their first attempts but their accuracy increased as they became more accustomed to it over the two weeks. Users were also asked to enter in someone else’s password which they found significantly more difficult to do. After even a few hours, the user had already forgotten the other user’s password. Moreover, passwords created by user’s who simply typed in their usual password very quickly, could barely be reproduced by other users due to differences in typing styles; for example, one user types the first three letters so quickly that the program interprets them as one key input, while another user can only type the first two keys quickly enough and the third is considered a separate input. 
	In conclusion, the password system is surely more intricate and distinct to each user than the standard universal system. Since this type of password needs to be remembered by a user and cannot be recorded on paper or on a computer as easily as a normal password, it is less prone to being uncovered by others. In addition, even if the password is shared with someone, it is unlikely that person will be able to recall the password in the future. 



